CASMINST-4651: Document a timing issue with keycloak setup and istio … (#1717)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: install/csm_installation_failure.md

# CSM Installation Failure

This page documents a possible timing related issue in a new CSM install.

## Details

<a name="verify_missing_secret"></a>
### 1. Verify Missing Secret

   1. Verify installation output signature matches

      ```bash
      ...
        ERROR   Step: Set Management NCNs to use Unbound --- Checking Precondition
      + Getting admin-client-auth secret
      Error from server (NotFound): secrets "admin-client-auth" not found
      + Obtaining access token
      curl: (22) The requested URL returned error: 404
      + Querying SLS
      curl: (22) The requested URL returned error: 503

      Check the doc below for troubleshooting:
            If any management NCNs are missing from the output, take corrective action
            before proceeding.

       INFO  Failed Pipeline/Step id: f0cd9574240989eb04118d308f26b3ea
      exit status 22
      ```

      Perform this procedure when observed. The root cause is simply a timing issue.

<a name="validate_keycloak_setup_is_running"></a>

> ### 1. Validate Keycloak Setup Is Running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: [Still have this suggestion](https://github.com/Cray-HPE/docs-csm/pull/1717/files#r884192559)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>    1. To ensure keycloak-setup has the issue, look for a keycloak-setup pod still in a Running state:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify that `keycloak-setup` has this issue.

      Look for a `keycloak-setup` pod still in the `Running` state:
```

      ```bash
      pit # kubectl get pods --namespace services | grep keycloak-setup

>       keycloak-setup-1-xj9s5                                            1/2     Running   0          32m

Reviewer: ````suggestion
      ```

      Example output of pod still in `Running` state:

      ```text
      keycloak-setup-1-xj9s5                                            1/2     Running   0          32m
````

      ```

>     Look at the istio-proxy container logs for this signature:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check the `istio-proxy` container logs for the `keycloak-setup` pod found in the previous step.
```

>       ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      In the following command, substitute the name of the `keycloak-setup` pod found in the previous step.

      ```bash
```

>       pit # kubectl logs --namespace services -n services keycloak-setup-1-xj9s5 --container istio-proxy | grep '[[:space:]]503[[:space:]]' | grep SDS | tail -n2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      pit # kubectl logs --namespace services -n services KEYCLOAK-SETUP-POD-NAME --container istio-proxy | grep '[[:space:]]503[[:space:]]' | grep SDS | tail -n2
```

>       [2022-05-27T13:21:24.535Z] "POST /keycloak/realms/master/protocol/openid-connect/token HTTP/1.1" 503 UF,URX "TLS error: Secret is not supplied by SDS" 96 159 16 - "-" "python-requests/2.27.1" "19fe9b72-d887-4649-b934-9dc7bc76cc21" "keycloak.services:8080" "10.44.0.31:8080" outbound|8080||keycloak.services.svc.cluster.local - 10.28.81.125:8080 10.32.0.25:60032 - default

Reviewer: ````suggestion
      ```

      If the output looks similar to the following, then proceed to the remediation steps.

      ```text
      [2022-05-27T13:21:24.535Z] "POST /keycloak/realms/master/protocol/openid-connect/token HTTP/1.1" 503 UF,URX "TLS error: Secret is not supplied by SDS" 96 159 16 - "-" "python-requests/2.27.1" "19fe9b72-d887-4649-b934-9dc7bc76cc21" "keycloak.services:8080" "10.44.0.31:8080" outbound|8080||keycloak.services.svc.cluster.local - 10.28.81.125:8080 10.32.0.25:60032 - default
````

      [2022-05-27T13:21:34.573Z] "POST /keycloak/realms/master/protocol/openid-connect/token HTTP/1.1" 503 UF,URX "TLS error: Secret is not supplied by SDS" 96 159 61 - "-" "python-requests/2.27.1" "ef0255b4-260b-47b5-8077-3e17e9371baf" "keycloak.services:8080" "10.44.0.31:8080" outbound|8080||keycloak.services.svc.cluster.local - 10.28.81.125:8080 10.32.0.25:60964 - default
      ```

> <a name="keycloak_setup_workaround"></a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### 1. Keycloak Setup Workaround

Reviewer: ## Remediate the problem

>    1. To work around this issue we simply need to delete the current keycloak-setup pod manually:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Delete the current `keycloak-setup` pod.
```

>       ```bash

Reviewer: ````suggestion
      In the following command, substitute the name of the `keycloak-setup` pod found in the previous section.

      ```bash
````

>       pit # kubectl delete pod --namespace services keycloak-setup-1-xj9s5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      pit # kubectl delete pod --namespace services KEYCLOAK-SETUP-POD-NAME
```

      ```

>       Ensure new keycloak-setup pod completed setup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Find the pod name of the new `keycloak-setup` pod by using the same `kubectl get pods` command from the previous section.

1. Ensure that the new `keycloak-setup` pod completed setup:
```

>       ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      In the following command, substitute the name of the new `keycloak-setup` pod found in the previous step.

      ```bash
```

>       pit # kubectl logs --namespace services -n services keycloak-setup-2-xz1hr --container keycloak-setup | tail -n 3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      pit # kubectl logs --namespace services -n services NEW-KEYCLOAK-SETUP-POD-NAME --container keycloak-setup | tail -n 3
```

>       2022-05-27 14:12:25,251 - INFO    - keycloak_setup - Deleting 'keycloak-gatekeeper-client' Secret in namespace 'services'...

Reviewer: ````suggestion
      ```

      Example output indicating that it has completed setup:

      ```text
      2022-05-27 14:12:25,251 - INFO    - keycloak_setup - Deleting 'keycloak-gatekeeper-client' Secret in namespace 'services'...
````

      2022-05-27 14:12:25,264 - INFO    - keycloak_setup - The 'keycloak-gatekeeper-client' secret in namespace 'services' already doesn't exit.
      2022-05-27 14:12:25,264 - INFO    - keycloak_setup - Keycloak setup complete
      ```

>       Once all keycloak pods have successfully completed installation can continue:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Once all Keycloak pods have successfully completed, then re-run the installation script and proceed with the installation.
```

      ```bash
      pit # kubectl get pods --namespace services | grep keycloak | grep -Ev '(Completed|Running)'

>       pit #

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>       ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
      ```

      If this command gives no output, then installation may proceed.

````

timing-related issue. This page documents how to determine if this problem was the cause of an install script failure,
and the appropriate remediation steps to take if it is encountered.

## How to determine if an install hit this issue

1. Verify that the installation script output contains an error about a missing secret.

    Example snippet from the install script output:

    ```text
      ERROR   Step: Set Management NCNs to use Unbound --- Checking Precondition
    + Getting admin-client-auth secret
    Error from server (NotFound): secrets "admin-client-auth" not found
    + Obtaining access token
    curl: (22) The requested URL returned error: 404
    + Querying SLS
    curl: (22) The requested URL returned error: 503

    Check the doc below for troubleshooting:
          If any management NCNs are missing from the output, take corrective action
          before proceeding.

     INFO  Failed Pipeline/Step id: f0cd9574240989eb04118d308f26b3ea
    exit status 22
    ```

    If the above `secrets "admin-client-auth" not found` error is observed, then proceed to the next step.

> ## Validate Keycloak Setup Is Running

Reviewer: It seems like this still falls under the heading of determining if the install hit this issue, so we don't need a new header.
```suggestion
```

1. Verify that `keycloak-setup` has this issue.

    Look for a `keycloak-setup` pod still in the `Running` state:

>     ```text

Reviewer: ````suggestion
    ```bash
    pit# kubectl get pods -n services | grep keycloak-setup
    ```

    Example output:

    ```text
````

      [2022-05-27T13:21:34.573Z] "POST /keycloak/realms/master/protocol/openid-connect/token HTTP/1.1" 503 UF,URX "TLS error: Secret is not supplied by SDS" 96 159 61 - "-" "python-requests/2.27.1" "ef0255b4-260b-47b5-8077-3e17e9371baf" "keycloak.services:8080" "10.44.0.31:8080" outbound|8080||keycloak.services.svc.cluster.local - 10.28.81.125:8080 10.32.0.25:60964 - default
    ```

## Remediate the problem

1. Delete the current `keycloak-setup` pod.

    In the following command, substitute the name of the `keycloak-setup` pod found in the previous section.

    ```bash
    pit # kubectl delete pod --namespace services KEYCLOAK-SETUP-POD-NAME
    ```

1. Find the pod name of the new `keycloak-setup` pod by using the same `kubectl get pods` command from the previous section.

1. Ensure that the new `keycloak-setup` pod completed setup:

    In the following command, substitute the name of the new `keycloak-setup` pod found in the previous step.

    ```bash

>      pit # kubectl logs --namespace services -n services NEW-KEYCLOAK-SETUP-POD-NAME --container keycloak-setup | tail -n 3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    pit # kubectl logs --namespace services -n services NEW-KEYCLOAK-SETUP-POD-NAME --container keycloak-setup | tail -n 3
```

    Example snippet from the install script output:

    ```text
      ERROR   Step: Set Management NCNs to use Unbound --- Checking Precondition
    + Getting admin-client-auth secret
    Error from server (NotFound): secrets "admin-client-auth" not found
    + Obtaining access token
    curl: (22) The requested URL returned error: 404
    + Querying SLS
    curl: (22) The requested URL returned error: 503

    Check the doc below for troubleshooting:
          If any management NCNs are missing from the output, take corrective action
          before proceeding.

     INFO  Failed Pipeline/Step id: f0cd9574240989eb04118d308f26b3ea
    exit status 22
    ```

    If the above `secrets "admin-client-auth" not found` error is observed, then proceed to the next step.

### 1. Validate Keycloak Setup Is Running

1. Verify that `keycloak-setup` has this issue.

    Look for a `keycloak-setup` pod still in the `Running` state:

    ```text
    keycloak-setup-1-xj9s5                                            1/2     Running   0          32m
    ```

1. Check the `istio-proxy` container logs for the `keycloak-setup` pod found in the previous step.

>     If the output looks similar to the following, then proceed to the remediation steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In the following command, substitute the name of the `keycloak-setup` pod found in the previous step.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     ```text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```bash
```

>     pit # kubectl logs --namespace services -n services keycloak-setup-1-xj9s5 --container istio-proxy | grep '[[:space:]]503[[:space:]]' | grep SDS | tail -n2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    pit # kubectl logs --namespace services -n services KEYCLOAK-SETUP-POD-NAME --container istio-proxy | grep '[[:space:]]503[[:space:]]' | grep SDS | tail -n2
```

>       [2022-05-27T13:21:24.535Z] "POST /keycloak/realms/master/protocol/openid-connect/token HTTP/1.1" 503 UF,URX "TLS error: Secret is not supplied by SDS" 96 159 16 - "-" "python-requests/2.27.1" "19fe9b72-d887-4649-b934-9dc7bc76cc21" "keycloak.services:8080" "10.44.0.31:8080" outbound|8080||keycloak.services.svc.cluster.local - 10.28.81.125:8080 10.32.0.25:60032 - default

Reviewer: ````suggestion
    ```

    If the output looks similar to the following, then proceed to the remediation steps.

    ```text
      [2022-05-27T13:21:24.535Z] "POST /keycloak/realms/master/protocol/openid-connect/token HTTP/1.1" 503 UF,URX "TLS error: Secret is not supplied by SDS" 96 159 16 - "-" "python-requests/2.27.1" "19fe9b72-d887-4649-b934-9dc7bc76cc21" "keycloak.services:8080" "10.44.0.31:8080" outbound|8080||keycloak.services.svc.cluster.local - 10.28.81.125:8080 10.32.0.25:60032 - default
````

      [2022-05-27T13:21:34.573Z] "POST /keycloak/realms/master/protocol/openid-connect/token HTTP/1.1" 503 UF,URX "TLS error: Secret is not supplied by SDS" 96 159 61 - "-" "python-requests/2.27.1" "ef0255b4-260b-47b5-8077-3e17e9371baf" "keycloak.services:8080" "10.44.0.31:8080" outbound|8080||keycloak.services.svc.cluster.local - 10.28.81.125:8080 10.32.0.25:60964 - default
    ```

> ### 1. Remediate the problem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Remediate the problem
```

1. Delete the current `keycloak-setup` pod.

>     Look at the `istio-proxy` container logs for this signature:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     pit # kubectl logs --namespace services -n services KEYCLOAK-SETUP-POD-NAME --container istio-proxy | grep '[[:space:]]503[[:space:]]' | grep SDS | tail -n2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    In the following command, substitute the name of the `keycloak-setup` pod found in the previous section.

    ```bash
    pit # kubectl delete pod --namespace services KEYCLOAK-SETUP-POD-NAME
    ```

1. Find the pod name of the new `keycloak-setup` pod by using the same `kubectl get pods` command from the previous section.

1. Ensure that the new `keycloak-setup` pod completed setup:

    In the following command, substitute the name of the new `keycloak-setup` pod found in the previous step.

    ```bash
     pit # kubectl logs --namespace services -n services NEW-KEYCLOAK-SETUP-POD-NAME --container keycloak-setup | tail -n 3
    ```

    Example output indicating that it has completed setup:

    ```text

>      2022-05-27 14:12:25,251 - INFO    - keycloak_setup - Deleting 'keycloak-gatekeeper-client' Secret in namespace 'services'...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2022-05-27 14:12:25,251 - INFO    - keycloak_setup - Deleting 'keycloak-gatekeeper-client' Secret in namespace 'services'...
```

>      2022-05-27 14:12:25,264 - INFO    - keycloak_setup - The 'keycloak-gatekeeper-client' secret in namespace 'services' already doesn't exit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2022-05-27 14:12:25,264 - INFO    - keycloak_setup - The 'keycloak-gatekeeper-client' secret in namespace 'services' already doesn't exit.
```

>      2022-05-27 14:12:25,264 - INFO    - keycloak_setup - Keycloak setup complete

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2022-05-27 14:12:25,264 - INFO    - keycloak_setup - Keycloak setup complete
```
